# Machine Learning Engineer Nanodegree

The contents for Udacity's [Machine Learning Nanodegree curriculum](https://www.udacity.com/course/machine-learning-engineer-nanodegree--nd009t) with the [project description](https://github.com/udacity/machine-learning).
This repo contains my submission files and solutions I worked out for the projects.

### [Project 1: Predicting Boston Housing Prices](https://github.com/mehrceey04/ML-Udacity/tree/master/boston_housing)
The Boston housing market is highly competitive, and you want to be the best real estate agent in the area. To compete with your peers, you decide to leverage a few basic machine learning concepts to assist you and a client with finding the best selling price for their home. Luckily, you’ve come across the Boston Housing dataset which contains aggregated data on various features for houses in Greater Boston communities, including the median value of homes for each of those areas. Your task is to build an optimal model based on a statistical analysis with the tools available. This model will then be used to estimate the best selling price for your clients' homes.

### [Project 2: Finding Donors for CharityML](https://github.com/mehrceey04/ML-Udacity/tree/master/finding_donors)
CharityML is a fictitious charity organization located in the heart of Silicon Valley that was established to provide financial support for people eager to learn machine learning. After nearly 32,000 letters sent to people in the community, CharityML determined that every donation they received came from someone that was making more than $50,000 annually. To expand their potential donor base, CharityML has decided to send letters to residents of California, but to only those most likely to donate to the charity. With nearly 15 million working Californians, CharityML has brought you on board to help build an algorithm to best identify potential donors and reduce overhead cost of sending mail. Your goal will be evaluate and optimize several different supervised learners to determine which algorithm will provide the highest donation yield while also reducing the total number of letters being sent.

### [Project 3: Creating Customer Segments](https://github.com/mehrceey04/ML-Udacity/tree/master/customer_segments)
A wholesale distributor recently tested a change to their delivery method for some customers, by moving from a morning delivery service five days a week to a cheaper evening delivery service three days a week.Initial testing did not discover any significant unsatisfactory results, so they implemented the cheaper option for all customers. Almost immediately, the distributor began getting complaints about the delivery service change and customers were canceling deliveries — losing the distributor more money than what was being saved. You’ve been hired by the wholesale distributor to find what types of customers they have to help them make better, more informed business decisions in the future. Your task is to use unsupervised learning techniques to see if any similarities exist between customers, and how to best segment customers into distinct categories.

### [Project 4: Train a Smartcab to Drive](https://github.com/mehrceey04/ML-Udacity/tree/master/smartcab)
In the not-so-distant future, taxicab companies across the United States no longer employ human drivers to operate their fleet of vehicles. Instead, the taxicabs are operated by self-driving agents — known as smartcabs — to transport people from one location to another within the cities those companies operate. In major metropolitan areas, such as Chicago, New York City, and San Francisco, an increasing number of people have come to rely on smartcabs to get to where they need to go as safely and efficiently as possible. Although smartcabs have become the transport of choice, concerns have arose that a self-driving agent might not be as safe or efficient as human drivers, particularly when considering city traffic lights and other vehicles. To alleviate these concerns, your task as an employee for a national taxicab company is to use reinforcement learning techniques to construct a demonstration of a smartcab operating in real-time to prove that both safety and efficiency can be achieved.

### [Project 5: Dog Breed Classifier](https://github.com/mehrceey04/ML-Udacity/tree/master/dog-project)
In this project, you will learn how to build a pipeline to process real-world, user-supplied images. Given an image of a dog, your algorithm will identify an estimate of the canine’s breed. If supplied an image of a human, the code will identify the resembling dog breed.

### [Project 6: Capstone Project](https://github.com/mehrceey04/ML-Udacity/tree/master/ML-capstone)
In this capstone project, you will leverage what you’ve learned throughout the Nanodegree program to solve a problem of your choice by applying machine learning algorithms and techniques. You will first define the problem you want to solve and investigate potential solutions and performance metrics. Next, you will analyze the problem through visualizations and data exploration to have a better understanding of what algorithms and features are appropriate for solving it. You will then implement your algorithms and metrics of choice, documenting the preprocessing, refinement, and postprocessing steps along the way. Afterwards, you will collect results about the performance of the models used, visualize significant quantities, and validate/justify these values. Finally, you will construct conclusions about your results, and discuss whether your implementation adequately solves the problem.
